---
code: 103
name: Early Hints
title: 103 Early Hints
spec: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/semantics.html#early-hints
overview: Hints are available, you can use them for preloading if you like.
more:
- title: 103 Early Hints
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/103
- title: Link Serialisation in HTTP Headers
  from: Nottingham | The HTTP Working Group
  url: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc8288.html#header
- title: Link header
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Link
standard: false
experimental: true
---

## Takeaways

1. This status code indicates to the client that the server is likely to send a final response with the header fields included in the informational response.
1. Typically, a server will include the header fields sent in a `103 Early Hints` response in the final response as well. However, there might be cases when this is not desirable, such as when the server learns that the header fields in the `103 Early Hints` response are not correct before the final response is sent.
1. A client can speculatively evaluate the header fields included in a `103 Early Hints` response while waiting for the final response. For example, a client might recognize a `Link` header field value containing the relation type `preload` and start fetching the target resource. However, these header fields only provide hints to the client; they do not replace the header fields on the final response.
1. Aside from performance optimizations, such evaluation of the `103 Early Hints` response's header fields **must not** affect how the final response is processed. A client **must not** interpret the `103 Early Hints` response header fields as if they applied to the informational response itself (e.g., as metadata about the response).
1. A server _may_ use a `103 Early Hints` response to indicate only some of the header fields that are expected to be found in the final response.  A client _should not_ interpret the non-existence of a header field in a `103 Early Hints` response as a speculation that the header field is unlikely to be part of the final response.

## Information

The HTTP `103 Early Hints` information response status code is primarily intended to be used with the `Link` header to allow the user agent to start preloading resources while the server is still preparing a response.
