---
code: 204
name: No Content
title: 204 No Content
spec: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.204
overview: Request succeeded, and you don't need to navigate away.
more:
- title: 204 No Content
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/204
- title: PUT method
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/PUT
- title: ETag header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/ETag
seeAlso:
---

## Takeaways

1. The server has successfully fulfilled the request and there is no additional content to send in the response payload body.
1. Metadata in the response header fields refer to the target resource and its selected representation after the requested action was applied.
1. The `204` response allows a server to indicate that the action has been successfully applied to the target resource, while implying that the user agent does not need to traverse away from its current "document view" (if any).
1. The server assumes that the user agent will provide some indication of the success to its user, in accord with its own interface, and apply any new or updated metadata in the response to its active representation.
1. A `204` response is terminated by the first empty line after the header fields because it cannot contain a message body.
1. A `204` response is cacheable by default; an `ETag` header is included in such a response.

## Information

The `204 No Content` success status response code indicates that a request has succeeded, but that the client doesn't need to navigate away from its current page.

This might be used, for example, when implementing "save and continue editing" functionality for a wiki site. In this case a `PUT` request would be used to save the page, and the `204 No Content` response would be sent to indicate that the editor should not be replaced by some other page.

If a 204 status code is received in response to a `PUT` request and the response contains an `ETag` header field, then the `PUT` was successful and the `ETag` field-value contains the entity-tag for the new representation of that target resource.
