---
code: 206
name: Partial Content
title: 206 Partial Content
spec:  https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.206
overview: Here's the data you asked for. Their may be more.
more:
- title: 206 Partial Content
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/206
- title: If-Range header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/If-Range
- title: Range header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Range
- title: Content-Range header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Range
- title: Content-Type header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Type
seeAlso: 200
---

## Takeaways

1. The `206 Partial Content` success status response code indicates that the request has succeeded and the body contains the requested ranges of data, as described in the `Range` header of the request.
1. If there is only one range, the `Content-Type` of the whole response is set to the type of the document, and a `Content-Range` is provided.
1. If several ranges are sent back, the `Content-Type` is set to `multipart/byteranges` and each fragment covers one range, with `Content-Range` and `Content-Type` describing it.

## Understanding partial content

- The server is successfully fulfilling a range request for the target resource by transferring one or more parts of the selected representation that correspond to the satisfiable ranges found in the request's `Range` header field.
- If a single part is being transferred, the server generating the `206` response **must** generate a `Content-Range` header field, describing what range of the selected representation is enclosed, and a payload consisting of the range. For example:

```http
HTTP/1.1 206 Partial Content
Date: Wed, 15 Nov 1995 06:25:24 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 15 Nov 1995 04:58:08 GMT
Content-Range: bytes 21010-47021/47022
Content-Length: 26012
Content-Type: image/gif

... 26012 bytes of partial image data ...
```

- If multiple parts are being transferred, the server generating the `206` response **must** generate a `multipart/byteranges` payload, and a `Content-Type` header field containing the `multipart/byteranges` media type and its required boundary parameter. To avoid confusion with single-part responses, a server **must not** generate a `Content-Range` header field in the HTTP header section of a multiple part response (this field will be sent in each part instead).
- Within the header area of each body part in the multipart payload, the server **must** generate a `Content-Range` header field corresponding to the range being enclosed in that body part. If the selected representation would have had a `Content-Type` header field in a `200 OK` response, the server _should_ generate that same `Content-Type` field in the header area of each body part. For example:

```http
HTTP/1.1 206 Partial Content
Date: Wed, 15 Nov 1995 06:25:24 GMT
Last-Modified: Wed, 15 Nov 1995 04:58:08 GMT
Content-Length: 1741
Content-Type: multipart/byteranges; boundary=THIS_STRING_SEPARATES

--THIS_STRING_SEPARATES
Content-Type: application/pdf
Content-Range: bytes 500-999/8000

...the first range...
--THIS_STRING_SEPARATES
Content-Type: application/pdf
Content-Range: bytes 7000-7999/8000

...the second range
--THIS_STRING_SEPARATES--
```

## Information

- When multiple ranges are requested, a server _may_ coalesce any of the ranges that overlap, or that are separated by a gap that is smaller than the overhead of sending multiple parts, regardless of the order in which the corresponding byte-range-spec appeared in the received `Range` header field.
- Since the typical overhead between parts of a `multipart/byteranges` payload is around 80 bytes, depending on the selected representation's media type and the chosen boundary parameter length, it can be less efficient to transfer many small disjoint parts than it is to transfer the entire selected representation.
- A server **must not** generate a multipart response to a request for a single range, since a client that does not request multiple parts might not support multipart responses. However, a server _may_ generate a `multipart/byteranges` payload with only a single body part if multiple ranges were requested and only one range was found to be satisfiable or only one range remained after coalescing. A client that cannot process a `multipart/byteranges` response **must not** generate a request that asks for multiple ranges.
- When a multipart response payload is generated, the server _should_ send the parts in the same order that the corresponding byte-range-spec appeared in the received `Range` header field, excluding those ranges that were deemed unsatisfiable or that were coalesced into other ranges. A client that receives a multipart response **must** inspect the `Content-Range` header field present in each body part in order to determine which range is contained in that body part; a client cannot rely on receiving the same ranges that it requested, nor the same order that it requested.
- When a `206` response is generated, the server **must** generate the following header fields, in addition to those required above, if the field would have been sent in a `200 OK` response to the same request: `Date`, `Cache-Control`, `ETag`, `Expires`, `Content-Location`, and `Vary`.
- If a `206` is generated in response to a request with an `If-Range` header field, the sender _should not_ generate other representation header fields beyond those required above, because the client is understood to already have a prior response containing those header fields. Otherwise, the sender **must** generate all of the representation header fields that would have been sent in a `200 OK` response to the same request.
- A `206` response is cacheable by default; i.e., unless otherwise indicated by explicit cache controls.
