---
code: 226
name: IM Used
title: 226 IM Used
spec: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3229.html#section-10.4.1
overview: An instance manipulation (IM) _delta_ has been returned.
more:
- title: 226 IM Used
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/226
body: |
  IM stands for _instance manipulations_ the term used to describe an algorithm generating a delta.
---

{% admonition "Browsers don't support delta encoding with HTTP. This status code is sent back by custom servers used by specific clients." | markdown %}

1. The server has fulfilled a `GET` request for the resource, and the response is a representation of the result of one or more instance-manipulations applied to the current instance.
1. The actual current instance might not be available except by combining this response with other previous or future responses, as appropriate for the specific instance-manipulation(s). If so, the headers of the resulting instance are the result of combining the headers from the `226` response and the other instances.
1. The request **must** have included an `A-IM` header field listing at least one instance-manipulation. The response **must** include an `ETag` header field giving the entity tag of the current instance.
1. A response received with a status code of `226` _may_ be stored by a cache and used in reply to a subsequent request, subject to the HTTP expiration mechanism and any `Cache-Control` headers.
1. A response received with a status code of 226 _may_ be used by a cache, in conjunction with a cache entry for the base instance, to create a cache entry for the current instance.

- In the context of delta encodings, the HTTP `226 IM Used` status code is set by the server to indicate that it is returning a delta to the `GET` request that it received.
- With delta encoding a server responds to `GET` requests with differences (called _deltas_) relative to a given base document (rather than the current document).
- The client uses the `A-IM:` HTTP header to indicate which differencing algorithm to use and the `If-None-Match:` header to hint the server about the last version it got.
- The server generates a delta, sending it back in an HTTP response with the `226` status code and containing the `IM:` (with the name of the algorithm used) and `Delta-Base:` (with the `ETag` matching the base document associated to the delta) HTTP headers.
