---
code: 302
name: Found
title: 302 Found
spec: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.302
overview: The resource requested has been temporarily moved to the URL given by the `Location` header.
more:
- title: 302 Found
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/302
- title: Location header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Location
seeAlso: 301, 303, 307
---

## Takeaways

1. The target resource resides temporarily under a different URI. Since the redirection might be altered on occasion, the client ought to continue to use the effective request URI for future requests.
1. The server _should_ generate a `Location` header field in the response containing a URI reference for the different URI.
1. The user agent _may_ use the `Location` field value for automatic redirection.
1. The server's response payload usually contains a short hypertext note with a hyperlink to the different URI(s).

{% admonition "For historical reasons, a user agent MAY change the request method from `POST` to `GET` for the subsequent request. If this behaviour is undesired, the `307` status code can be used instead." | markdown %}

## Information

The `302 Found` redirect status response code indicates that the resource requested has been temporarily moved to the URL given by the `Location` header. A browser redirects to this page but search engines don't update their links to the resource (in 'SEO-speak', it is said that the 'link-juice' is not sent to the new URL).

Even if the specification requires the method (and the body) not to be altered when the redirection is performed, not all user-agents conform here - you can still find this type of bugged software out there. It is therefore recommended to set the `302` code only as a response for `GET` or `HEAD` methods and to use `307 Temporary Redirect` instead, as the method change is explicitly prohibited in that case.

In the cases where you want the method used to be changed to `GET`, use `303 See Other` instead. This is useful when you want to give a response to a `PUT` method that is not the uploaded resource but a confirmation message such as: 'you successfully uploaded XYZ'.
