---
code: 303
name: See Other
title: 303 See Other
spec: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.303
overview: The redirects don't link to the requested resource itself, but to another resource.
more:
- title: 303 See Other
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/303
- title: Location header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Location
seeAlso: 302, 303, 307
---

## Takeaways

1. The server is redirecting the user agent to a different resource, as indicated by a URI in the Location header field, which is intended to provide an indirect response to the original request.
1. A user agent can perform a retrieval request targeting that URI (a `GET` or `HEAD` request if using HTTP), which might also be redirected, and present the eventual result as an answer to the original request.
1. A new URI in the `Location` header field is not considered equivalent to the effective request URI.

This status code is applicable to any HTTP method. It is primarily used to allow the output of a `POST` action to redirect the user agent to a selected resource, since doing so provides the information corresponding to the `POST` response in a form that can be separately identified, bookmarked, and cached, independent of the original request.

A `303` response to a `GET` request indicates that the origin server does not have a representation of the target resource that can be transferred by the server over HTTP. However, the `Location` field value refers to a resource that is descriptive of the target resource, such that making a retrieval request on that other resource might result in a representation that is useful to recipients without implying that it represents the original target resource.

Note that answers to the questions of what can be represented, what representations are adequate, and what might be a useful description are outside the scope of HTTP.

Except for responses to a `HEAD` request, the representation of a `303` response ought to contain a short hypertext note with a hyperlink to the same URI reference provided in the `Location` header field.

## Information

The `303 See Other` redirect status response code indicates that the redirects don't link to the requested resource itself, but to another resource/page (such as a confirmation page, a representation of a real-world object or an upload-progress page).

This response code is often sent back as a result of `PUT` or `POST`. The method used to display this redirected page is always `GET`.
