---
code: 307
name: Temporary Redirect
title: 307 Temporary Redirect
spec: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.307
overview: What you're looking for has moved, but only temporarily.
more:
- title: 307 Temporary Redirect
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/307
- title: Location header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Location
seeAlso: [302, 303, 301]
---

## Takeaways

1. The `307 Temporary Redirect` status response code indicates that the resource requested has been temporarily moved to the URL given by the `Location` headers.
1. The method and the body of the original request are reused to perform the redirected request.
1. In the cases where you want the method used to be changed to `GET`, use `303 See Other` instead. This is useful when you want to give an answer to a `PUT` method that is not the uploaded resources, but a confirmation message (like "You successfully uploaded XYZ").
1. The only difference between `307` and `302` is that `307` guarantees that the method and the body will not be changed when the redirected request is made.
1. With `302`, some old clients were incorrectly changing the method to `GET`: the behaviour with non-`GET` methods and `302` is then unpredictable on the Web, whereas the behaviour with `307` is predictable. For `GET` requests, their behaviour is identical.

## Information

The target resource resides temporarily under a different URI and the user agent **must not** change the request method if it performs an automatic redirection to that URI.

Since the redirection can change over time, the client ought to continue using the original effective request URI for future requests.

The server _should_ generate a `Location` header field in the response containing a URI reference for the different URI. The user agent _may_ use the `Location` field value for automatic redirection. The server's response payload usually contains a short hypertext note with a hyperlink to the different URI(s).
