---
code: 308
name: Permanent Redirect
title: 308 Permanent Redirect
spec: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.308
overview: What you're looking for has moved, permanently.
more:
- title: 308 Permanent Redirect
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/308
- title: Location header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Location
- title: Range header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Range
seeAlso: 301, 302
body: |
  A browser redirects to this page and search engines update their links to the resource (in 'SEO-speak', it is said that the 'link-juice' is sent to the new URL).
---

### Permanent Redirect

1. The target resource has been assigned a new permanent URI and any future references to this resource ought to use one of the enclosed URIs.
1. Clients with link editing capabilities ought to automatically re-link references to the effective request URI to one or more of the new references sent by the server, where possible.
1. The server _should_ generate a `Location` header field in the response containing a preferred URI reference for the new permanent URI.
1. The user agent _may_ use the `Location` field value for automatic redirection.
1. The server's response payload usually contains a short hypertext note with a hyperlink to the new URI(s).

A 308 response is cacheable by default; i.e., unless otherwise indicated by the method definition or explicit cache controls.

> {% infoSvg %} **Note**
>
> This status code is similar to `301 Moved Permanently`, except that it does not allow changing the request method from `POST` to `GET`.

### Resume Incomplete

Some applications may use `308 Resume Incomplete` as a **_non-standard_** response.

1. This status code indicates to the client that the server does not possess the complete byte range for the resume request to proceed but is still willing to continue the operation.
1. It may include a `Range` header so that the client may minimize the amount of data that needs to be retransmitted by the ensuing resume requests.
1. In the absence of any such `Range` header, the client should assume that the server has no stored bytes.
1. It may include a `Location` header indicating the URI to which future resumable requests should be sent for this operation.
