---
code: 404
name: Not Found
title: 404 Not Found
spec: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.404
overview: What you're asking for can't be found (or, at least the server is claiming that).
more:
- title: 404 Not Found
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/404
seeAlso: 410
---

## Takeaways

1. The origin server did not find a current representation for the target resource or is not willing to disclose that one exists.
1. A `404` status code does not indicate whether this lack of representation is temporary or permanent; the `410 Gone` status code is preferred over `404` if the origin server knows, presumably through some configurable means, that the condition is likely to be permanent.

## Information

The `404 Not Found` response status code indicates that the server cannot find the requested resource. Links that lead to a `404` page are often called broken or dead links and can be subject to link rot.

A `404` status code only indicates that the resource is missing: not whether the absence is temporary or permanent. If a resource is permanently removed, use the `410 Gone` status instead.

A `404` response is cacheable by default; i.e., unless otherwise indicated by the method definition or explicit cache controls.

## Custom error pages

{% admonition "Custom design is a good thing, in moderation. Feel free to make your 404 page humorous and human, but don't confuse your users." | markdown %}

You can display a custom `404` page to be more helpful to a user and provide guidance on what to do next. For example, for the Apache server, you can specify a path to a custom `404` page in an `.htaccess` file.
