---
code: 412
title: 412 Precondition Failed
name: Precondition Failed
spec: https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.412
overview: The required conditions have not been met.
more:
- title: 412 Precondition Failed
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/412
- title: If-Unmodified-Since header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/If-Unmodified-Since
- title: If-None-Match header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/If-None-Match
- title: If-Match header field
  from: MDN web docs
  url: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/If-Match
seeAlso: [304, 428]
---

## Takeaways

1. One or more conditions given in the request header fields evaluated to false when tested on the server.
1. This response code allows the client to place preconditions on the current resource state (its current representations and metadata).
1. Thus, this prevents the request method from being applied if the target resource is in an unexpected state.

## Information

The `412 Precondition Failed` client error response code indicates that access to the target resource has been denied. This happens with conditional requests on methods other than `GET` or `HEAD` when the condition defined by the `If-Unmodified-Since` or `If-None-Match` headers is not fulfilled. In that case, the request, usually an upload or a modification of a resource, cannot be made and this error response is sent back.

## Example

```http
ETag: "33a64df551425fcc55e4d42a148795d9f25f89d4"
ETag: W/"0815"
```

### Avoiding mid-air collisions

With the help of the `ETag` and the `If-Match` headers, you can detect mid-air edit collisions.

For example, when editing a wiki, the current wiki content is hashed and put into an `Etag` in the response:

```http
ETag: "33a64df551425fcc55e4d42a148795d9f25f89d4"
```

When saving changes to a wiki page (posting data), the `POST` request will contain the `If-Match` header containing the `ETag` values to check freshness against.

```http
If-Match: "33a64df551425fcc55e4d42a148795d9f25f89d4"
```

If the hashes don't match, it means that the document has been edited in-between and a `412 Precondition Failed` error is thrown.
